=== PAGE 1 ===
AI Agent Orchestration for Grassroots Lobbying
in Wireless Power Policy
Imagine supercharging a grassroots advocacy campaign with a team of tireless AI assistants. In this deep
dive, we’ll overlay the classic process of grassroots lobbying – from building public support to getting
a bill passed – with a modern  cloud-based multi-agent system. The goal is to show advocates (for
example,  those  working  on  wireless  power  legislation with  companies  like  Wi-Charge)  how
orchestrated AI agents can amplify strategy, streamline tactics, and even create some “controlled chaos”
in the media narrative to influence policy change. The tone here is teaching and informative, with key
buzzwords highlighted (and explained) along the way so you can incorporate them into your own “vibe
coding” or strategic planning sessions.
What’s ahead:
Quick Primer on Grassroots Lobbying & Lawmaking: How does a bill become law, and what
do grassroots advocates do at each step?
Meet Your AI Advocacy Team: An overview of a cloud-based multi-agent system (monitoring,
strategy, content creation, etc.) mapped to advocacy tasks.
Strategy vs. Tactics – Both Amplified: How AI agents help with high-level campaign strategy
and on-the-ground tactical execution.
Agents in Action (Workflow): Step-by-step example of the system driving a wireless power
policy campaign, from intel gathering to media blitz.
“Controlled Chaos” in Narrative Shaping: Using swarms of AI personas ethically to flood the
zone with your message.
Buzzword Glossary for Advocates: Handy terms – from policy window to stakeholder mapping –
and when to use them.
Let’s dive in.
Grassroots Lobbying 101: From People Power to Policy
Grassroots lobbying is all about people power. Instead of wealthy lobbyists making deals in back rooms,
it’s the bottom-up approach of mobilizing ordinary citizens to voice support or opposition to legislation
. The core idea is simple: if enough constituents (voters) contact their lawmakers about an issue,
those lawmakers will pay attention. Grassroots advocacy empowers everyday people to make their
voices heard, unlike traditional lobbying that relies on big funding
. Here’s a quick rundown of how a
policy idea travels from the streets to the statute books, and where grassroots activists step in:
Idea and Introduction: Every law starts as an idea. In our case, suppose the idea is incentivizing
wireless charging infrastructure (perhaps installing wireless power transmitters in public buildings
or enabling wireless EV charging). A lawmaker (legislative  champion) must sponsor and draft
this idea into a bill
. Grassroots role: Provide that idea or support it – advocates often supply
research, draft “model legislation,” or convince a legislator to champion their cause. This is
where having a policy entrepreneur (someone who spots a policy window, see Buzzwords) helps
to get the ball rolling.
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
1
2
• 
3
1

=== PAGE 2 ===
Committee Stage: Once introduced, the bill goes to a committee relevant to its topic (say, the
Energy or Technology committee). The committee may hold hearings, invite expert testimony,
debate and amend the bill
. They might also sit on it, never giving it a hearing (a common way
bills die).  Grassroots role: This is a  critical pressure point. Advocates mobilize supporters to
contact committee members (“Please give our wireless power bill a hearing!”). They organize
testimonies – maybe a Wi-Charge engineer or a supportive business owner speaks on the
benefits. They also submit written statements or research (often in the form of a white paper or
fact sheet). A strong grassroots campaign might generate media stories to put public spotlight
on the committee. At this stage, being armed with facts and compelling narratives (e.g. stories
of how wireless charging will help disabled or rural communities) is key.
Floor Votes: If the committee approves, the bill goes to the floor of its chamber (House or
Senate) for debate and vote
. Then it must repeat the process in the  other chamber
. 
Grassroots role: Keep the momentum. This means rallying an even larger base to contact  all
legislators, not just committee members. Common tactics include  letter-writing campaigns
(flood  offices  with  constituent  letters  or  emails)
,  phone  banks (constituents  calling
lawmakers’  offices)
,  and  social  media  campaigns  tagging  legislators.  Advocates  might
organize a Lobby Day, bringing supporters in person to the capitol to meet legislators (often
wearing coordinated T-shirts or buttons to show their numbers). The aim is to show broad,
visible support in every district – legislators need to feel that voting “yes” is popular (and voting
“no” has political cost). Meanwhile, any opposition will be doing the same in reverse, so staying
ahead on the narrative is crucial.
Reconciliation: If  both  House  and  Senate  pass  versions  of  the  bill,  differences  must  be
reconciled (through conference committees)
. This is more technical, but grassroots pressure
at this point can ensure that the stronger version of the bill (say the one with wireless charging
funding included) survives the merge. It often involves targeted advocacy toward leadership or
key negotiators behind the scenes.
Executive Approval: Finally, the governor or president signs the bill into law (or vetoes it)
.
Here, broad public support can encourage a signature or make veto politically risky. Grassroots
groups might stage public demonstrations or media events urging the executive to sign. If a veto
happens,  they  may  need  to  drum  up  an  override  vote  (very  challenging,  requiring
supermajorities).
Implementation  &  Beyond: Even  after  a  law  passes,  advocacy  continues  during  the
implementation phase (agency regulations, funding appropriations, etc.). But for our scope, we’ll
focus on getting the law enacted.
Notice that grassroots lobbying isn’t a single action – it’s a campaign spanning many stages, often
requiring pivoting strategies as the bill moves or as opposition responds. It involves education (teaching
the  public  and  lawmakers  about  wireless  power  benefits),  mobilization (getting  people  to  act),
communication (media and narratives), and political savvy (knowing who to pressure and when).
Now, overlaying an AI multi-agent system onto this process means we’ll have specialized AI assistants
to help at each stage: monitoring developments, formulating strategy, generating content, and even
orchestrating supporter actions. Before diving into the specifics, let’s sketch out what this AI-powered
advocacy “team” looks like.
• 
4
• 
5
6
7
8
• 
9
• 
10
• 
2

=== PAGE 3 ===
The Cloud Agent Advocacy Team: An Overview
Think of a cloud agent as an AI-powered assistant that lives in the cloud (not just on your laptop) and
can perform dedicated tasks, possibly for extended periods, with access to tools or data. In a traditional
campaign, you might have a team of people with different roles: a researcher, a communications lead, a
volunteer coordinator, etc. Here, we have a  team of AI agents filling similar roles, coordinated in an
orchestrated workflow. The idea is not to replace human advocates, but to augment them – handling
the heavy lifting of data-crunching, monitoring, drafting materials, and even automating outreach, so
humans can focus on decisions and relationship-building.
Let’s introduce the cast of AI agents in a typical advocacy orchestration:
Monitoring Agent(s): These agents continuously scan the environment for relevant information.
They watch legislative updates, news outlets, social media, regulatory filings – anything related
to wireless power or our specific bill. They use keywords and even advanced techniques like
natural language understanding to flag when, say, a new wireless charging bill is mentioned in
a state legislature, or when a trending tweet about “wireless power safety” emerges. Think of
them as your eyes and ears everywhere, 24/7.
Analysis  &  Fact-Checking  Agent: Raw  information  is  useless  without  analysis.  This  agent
summarizes  the  firehose  of  info  into  digestible  intelligence.  It  can  produce  daily  briefs
(“Yesterday in Wireless Power: 2 new articles, 1 committee hearing scheduled, opposition
group launched a new website, etc.). Crucially, it also performs fact-checking on claims. For
instance, if an opposition tweet claims “wireless charging is a health hazard,” the agent will
cross-reference scientific studies or expert reports to verify or debunk it. The agent might use a
combination of OCR (to read PDFs or images of news clippings), databases (for legislation text),
and trusted websites. It ensures our campaign’s knowledge base stays truthful and up-to-date,
so we don’t get blindsided by false narratives.
Strategy Agent (Planner): This is a higher-level “thinker” that takes the campaign’s ultimate
goal (pass the wireless power bill) and charts the course. It digests inputs from the analysis
agent and answers: What is our next best move? For example, if the monitoring agent reports a
key committee hearing next month, the Strategy Agent might plan a timeline: “Week 1: mobilize
testimonials, Week 2: op-ed in local paper, Week 3: rally at capitol before hearing.” It’s aware of
the legislative process and the campaign’s status. It can identify stakeholders and allies (e.g.
suggests reaching out to a renewable energy association to join the coalition) and map out
opposition influence (e.g. it might flag that an opposing lobby group is strong in the committee,
suggesting extra effort there). Essentially, this agent does  “stakeholder mapping” and keeps
track of the power dynamics, recommending strategic moves. It uses concepts like identifying a
“legislative champion” (who can push the bill) or spotting a  policy window (e.g. aligning the
campaign with an upcoming clean energy initiative so it’s more likely to get attention).
Tactics Agent (Taskmaster): If Strategy says what to do, the Tactics Agent figures out how to do
it specifically. This agent takes a strategic idea (e.g. “engage supporters to pressure Committee
X”) and outputs concrete tactics: “set up a phone banking campaign targeting the 5 swing votes
on Committee X; generate call scripts emphasizing our key talking points for each legislator’s
district.” It might come up with multiple action items: social media blasts, grassroots events,
direct mail, etc., tailored to the strategy. It draws on a knowledge base of advocacy methods (for
instance, knowing that a  letter-writing campaign is effective for demonstrating constituent
interest
, while a media stunt might be useful for drawing press coverage). The Tactics Agent
• 
• 
• 
• 
7
3

=== PAGE 4 ===
essentially produces a to-do list for the campaign, complete with creative ideas. It can even
prioritize them by impact or resource required. Think of it as a campaign consultant that knows
all the tricks, from classic ones like lobby days to modern digital strategies like online petition
drives or Twitter storms.
Content Creator Agents: Now we execute the tactics by producing the necessary content and
communications. Often, we’ll have multiple specialized content agents:
A Policy Writer AI to draft things like fact sheets, white papers, or even bill text. If we need a
one-pager explaining wireless charging in plain language for lawmakers, this agent drafts it,
pulling the best evidence (e.g. safety data, economic benefits).
A Communications AI to craft outreach materials: press releases, emails to supporters,
newsletter updates, op-eds, and letters to the editor. Give it the key points and it will generate a
polished piece in the right format. It understands narrative framing – e.g. emphasizing jobs
and innovation in one media outlet, while focusing on consumer freedom in another, depending
on the audience.
A Social Media Agent to handle short-form content: tweets (or posts on whatever platform is
popular now), memes, infographics. It stays on top of trends (maybe it notices a hashtag
#FutureTech trending and suggests tagging posts with it). It can even converse in comment
sections under supervision, responding to common questions with preset answers (fact-checked
by the Analysis Agent to avoid spreading any inaccuracies).
All content agents work under guidelines set by the campaign team – for instance, they know the
campaign’s buzzwords and messaging (like always mention “clean energy” and “innovation” as benefits,
avoid technical jargon like “IR power” that might confuse). They also are programmed to stay truthful
and respectful (we don’t want our campaign to backfire by using false info or toxic language).
Distribution & Outreach Agent: Creating content is half the battle; getting it in front of the
right people is the other half. The Distribution Agent automates the delivery. It can interface with
email platforms (to send that supporter email via an advocacy CRM tool), schedule social media
posts across accounts, and even personalize messages to different segments. For example, it
could take a template letter and swap in each legislator’s name and a relevant local fact (many
advocacy software do this with ease). This agent might manage a contact list of supporters and
handle things like patch-through calls – where supporters sign up and then get automatically
connected to their representative’s office by the system, one by one, to deliver the message
(modern advocacy tools provide these features
). Essentially, the Distribution Agent is your
campaign’s project manager and communication dispatcher.
Feedback/Analytics Agent: A crucial but often overlooked member of the team. This agent
listens to the world’s response to our campaign and measures impact. It tracks metrics: how
many emails were sent, how many social media shares or comments our posts got, any shifts in
public sentiment (maybe it does sentiment analysis on social media or in the press coverage). It
also monitors official progress: did more lawmakers sign on as co-sponsors after our last push?
Has the bill advanced out of committee or gotten scheduled for a vote? By aggregating these,
the Analytics Agent can tell the Strategy Agent and the human team what’s working and what
isn’t. For example, it might report “Our op-ed got 500 shares and led to 200 new petition sign-
ups, but calls to Senator Y’s office are low – maybe we need another push in her district.” This
closes the loop, feeding back into strategy adjustments.
And of course, the Human Advocate (you) is in the loop. You might be coordinating this agent team
via a central dashboard (imagine a future  advocacy cockpit where you can see what each agent is
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
8
• 
4

=== PAGE 5 ===
doing). You set goals, review critical outputs (you’d likely want to double-check that policy brief or press
release before it goes out), and provide the personal touch that AI can’t – like meeting a legislator face-
to-face or speaking at a town hall. The AI agents are like your support staff operating at digital speed.
We’ll soon illustrate how these agents collaborate in practice. But first, here’s a diagram to visualize the
system:
flowchart LR
    subgraph Monitoring & Analysis
      A[Monitoring Agent]
      B[Verification Agent]
      C[Review/Editor Agent]
      A --> B --> C
    end
    subgraph Strategy & Execution
      D[Strategy Planner Agent]
      E[Tactics Planner Agent]
      F[Content Creator Agent(s)]
      G[Distribution Agent]
      D --> E --> F --> G
    end
    %% Data flow between groups
    C --> D  %% intelligence feeds strategy
    G --> C  %% outcomes (media, data) feed back for analysis
    %% User interaction points
    C --> User((Human Advocate))  %% user receives curated intel
    G --> User((Human Advocate))  %% user sees/approves content distribution
Diagram:  A  multi-agent  orchestration  for  advocacy.  Left  side  (blue)  monitors  and  analyzes  incoming
information, feeding insights to the right side (green) which handles strategy and execution. The human
advocate supervises critical in- and out-flows.
Let’s break down how these components specifically overlay with the steps of grassroots advocacy we
outlined earlier, and how they work together in a workflow.
Strategy Meets Tactics: AI Support at Every Step
In a successful grassroots lobbying effort, strategy and tactics go hand in hand. Strategy is the overall
plan (“What are we trying to achieve, and how do we get there?”), while tactics are the specific actions
(“How exactly do we convince Representative Smith? Let’s have constituents in her district tweet photos
of using wireless chargers at local libraries.”). Our AI agents assist with both – ensuring no strategic ball
is dropped and churning out tactical options on the fly. Here’s how the earlier steps of advocacy can be
supercharged with AI, with a focus on wireless power policy:
1. Identifying the Issue and Goal Setting
(Corresponds to “Identify your issue” in grassroots planning)
5

=== PAGE 6 ===
Before any campaign starts, you define the problem and the solution you seek (legislation, regulation,
funding, etc.)
. For wireless power, the issue might be “Current laws don’t allow wireless charging
transmitters in public places” or “No funding for wireless EV charging R&D.” The goal could be “Pass a
Wireless Power Enablement Act by next year” or “Get a regulatory exemption for our technology.”
How AI helps: A Strategy Agent can assist in refining this goal by scanning the policy landscape. It might
analyze existing laws (perhaps finding that the FCC has regulations on wireless power emissions, or that
a few states have proposed related bills). It identifies the gap our legislation needs to fill. This agent can
even draft a preliminary  problem statement and list possible policy approaches (tax credits, safety
standards, pilot programs, etc.). It ensures we’ve “determined how to remedy the problem” – a key
first  step
 –  whether  through  new  legislation  or  changes  in  regulation.  By  crunching  through
databases of laws and think-tank reports, the AI might suggest angles advocates hadn’t considered (e.g.
tying wireless charging to clean energy goals, which might broaden support).
At  this  stage,  the  Strategy  Agent  also  begins  basic  stakeholder  mapping.  It  will  identify  key
stakeholders
: relevant government bodies (legislative committees, regulatory agencies like the FCC
or  Department  of  Energy),  potential  allies  (tech  companies,  environmental  groups  who  like  clean
energy, disability advocates who see benefit in wireless charging for accessibility), and likely opponents
(incumbent industries that might lose, or consumer safety groups worried about new tech). It might
output a simple map:  “Constituents who benefit: gadget users, EV owners; Allies: Consumer Electronics
Association, environmental NGOs if framed as green tech; Opposition: possibly wired charger manufacturers,
or groups citing radiation concerns.” This helps humans plan alliances and preempt counter-arguments.
Buzzwords to note: Stakeholder mapping (analyzing who has influence and interest), coalition building
(forming alliances with those allies), regulatory strategy (maybe the solution involves not just a bill but
agency rules – AI can flag that). All these ensure the campaign starts with a clear target.
2. Research and Fact Base (“Know Your Facts”)
No lawmaker or public audience will be convinced without solid facts and persuasive arguments.
Traditional advice is “prepare fact sheets and persuasive points”
. Wireless power is a technical
subject – you’ll need data on its safety (e.g. “UL-certification pending, infrared power is safe for casual
exposure”), effectiveness, use cases, economic impact, etc.
How AI helps: The  Analysis & Fact-Checking Agent shines here. It gathers information from scientific
papers, industry reports, and pilot projects about wireless power. For example, it might pull data from
Wi-Charge’s trials or white papers on how many devices can be powered at what distance. It then
generates succinct fact sheets automatically. If you prompt it, “Give me the 5 most persuasive points in
favor of long-range wireless charging,” it might output: - Point 1: Increases convenience and accessibility
(no cords, devices can charge anywhere – important for medical devices, IoT sensors). - Point 2: Economic
boost to tech sector (new markets for wireless power devices, job creation). - Point 3: Safety is proven (cite
studies, regulatory approvals indicating technology meets health standards). - Point 4: Supports clean energy
(enables easier charging of EVs or storage devices, integrating with renewable energy usage). -  Point 5:
Innovation  leadership  (don’t  let  other  countries  like  China  beat  us  in  adopting  wireless  power  –  a
competitiveness angle).
The agent will  list the most important and persuasive points
, and crucially, back them with
citations or evidence (perhaps linking to a recent IEEE study on wireless charging efficiency).
11
11
12
13
13
6

=== PAGE 7 ===
Additionally, the Fact-Checking function will prepare rebuttals for likely counter-arguments. If “know
your opposition” is another principle (we see it is, step 4 in grassroots guides
), the AI will gather the
opposition’s claims (“Wireless power is wasteful or dangerous”) and find facts to counter (“Actually, the
power density is low and well within safety limits per FCC guidelines, and efficiency is improving with
new tech”). This means when the time comes to debate or produce PR, we have a truth arsenal ready.
The Analysis Agent effectively becomes our research assistant, reference librarian, and truth detector in
one – ensuring all outgoing messages are factual and compelling.
It can even generate polished visual aids or infographics if needed (charts of data), although that might
require some human or specialized tool help for now. But summarizing data in easy formats (bullet lists,
Q&A for FAQs, etc.) is well within its capability.
3. Building a Support Base (Coalition and Grassroots)
“You can’t do it alone” – an advocacy truism. Step 3 of classic grassroots planning is to build your base
of support
. This means recruiting individuals and groups to back your cause. For wireless power,
you might seek support from tech enthusiasts, environmentalists (if you angle it as energy efficiency),
businesses that could use it (hotels, device manufacturers), and everyday consumers who hate dealing
with cords. You may also form a  coalition with other organizations – e.g. a “Wireless Innovation
Alliance” with multiple companies, or an alliance with a disability rights group if wireless charging helps
medical implants or wheelchairs.
How AI helps: There are a few ways: - The Monitoring Agent can scan social media and forums to find
organic communities discussing wireless charging or related topics. It might discover, for instance, a
Reddit community excited about wireless gadget chargers, or a grassroots EV club that would love
wireless charging pads on streets. These are potential supporters. The agent could flag influential
voices (someone who blogs or tweets a lot about tech policy, perhaps a friendly tech journalist or a
YouTuber who reviewed Wi-Charge). Identifying such “influential community leaders” is something the AI
can do by analyzing follower counts and engagement. - The Strategy Agent can suggest organizations or
influencers to partner with. Using stakeholder mapping data, it might output: “Outreach targets: [Tech
Innovators Association], [SmartCities Coalition], [Clean Energy Partnership]. These groups align with our
goals.”  It  could  even  draft  template  outreach  messages  to  them.  -  The  Content  Agents help  craft
recruitment materials. Need a website or social media page for the campaign? The AI can generate
the copy (“Join us in untethering our devices – support the Wireless Power Freedom Act!”). It will
incorporate those persuasive points we gathered. - The  Distribution Agent can manage sign-ups and
mailing lists as people join. It segments supporters by region or interest, so later we can target
messages (e.g. only people in Senator Jones’ state get the “Call Senator Jones” alert).
In essence, while human relationships still matter (nothing replaces a personal call to a coalition
partner), the AI system handles the scut work of identifying and engaging potential supporters at scale.
It ensures no potential ally is overlooked due to human oversight.
It also helps maintain momentum with your base. For example, the system can automatically send
periodic updates to supporters (“Great news: 3 new co-sponsors signed on to our bill!”) to keep them
engaged  –  something  many  grassroots  efforts  struggle  with  due  to  limited  staff.  Enthusiastic
supporters  are  your  force  multipliers:  they  will  amplify  messages,  attend  events,  and  pressure
lawmakers if energized.
14
15
7

=== PAGE 8 ===
4. Knowing the Opposition (and Neutralizing It)
Any campaign worth fighting has opposition. In our wireless power scenario, who might oppose?
Perhaps manufacturers of traditional charging cables or wired charging stations see it as competition.
Maybe some health and safety advocates worry about new tech. Or a rival tech company has their own
proprietary charging solution and lobbies against Wi-Charge’s approach. Step 4 in grassroots playbooks
is “Know your opposition”
 – research them, understand their arguments and strategy.
How AI helps: This is like having an intel analyst on staff. The Monitoring Agent will keep tabs on known
opposition groups or figures. For example, if a consumer safety NGO issues a press release “Wireless
Charging Dangers – We Must Halt Bill X,” the agent will catch that from news feeds or the NGO’s
website. It might also monitor the social media of key opposition leaders for hints of their next moves.
The Analysis Agent then digs into why they oppose and their strategy
. Perhaps it finds that the
opposition cites an old study about “wireless power causing interference with pacemakers.” It will verify
if  that’s  true  or  outdated  (maybe  new  tech  solved  that).  It  could  prepare  a  brief  for  the  team:
“Opposition Claim A vs. Facts; Opposition’s likely channels (they have ties to certain lawmakers or are
pushing for an amendment to water down our bill).”
Moreover, the AI can simulate the opposition’s perspective – almost like a sparring partner. Modern
LLMs can adopt a role and argue from it. So we could prompt an agent: “Pretend you are an opposition
lobbyist arguing against wireless power tech. What points would you make?” The AI might generate a
list of the strongest anti arguments: “unproven technology, safety unknown, expensive to implement,
benefits overstated, etc.” This is incredibly useful for red-teaming our own strategy. For each point, we
develop a counter (with the help of our fact-checker agent supplying data). By role-playing both sides,
the AI helps us stress-test our campaign’s messaging and shore up any weak spots.
Finally, when it comes to direct engagement, the agents assist too. Suppose the opposition spreads
misinformation in a community meeting (“These wireless chargers will microwave your brain!”). The AI
can quickly generate a myth-vs-fact sheet to set the record straight, something Satterfield identified as
crucial in real campaigns
. The earlier-cited framework in utility advocacy emphasized finding and
correcting misinformation while also building relationships with opponents
. Our AI system equips
us to do exactly that: we catch false claims quickly and respond with factual, calm corrections (maybe
via a public FAQ or through supporters armed with our talking points). Meanwhile, by understanding
the opposition’s motivations (the Strategy Agent might deduce “Opposition is primarily concerned with
safety;  maybe  invite  them  to  a  demonstration  to  show  it’s  safe”),  we  can  even  engage  them
constructively – potentially turning some into neutral parties or even allies over time. AI won’t magically
make opponents agree, but it ensures we’re never caught off guard by their narratives.
5. Legislative Process Navigation
In classic terms, “Know the legislative process” and target the right people
. We already reviewed the
steps of a bill. But in practice, a campaign must constantly track  where the bill is and  who needs
influencing  at  that  moment.  Today  that  might  mean  manually  checking  legislature  websites,
subscribing to updates, or relying on lobbyists for intel.
How AI helps: The Monitoring Agent is almost tailor-made for this. It will monitor the official legislature
updates (many states and Congress have RSS feeds or sites like Congress.gov for bill status). The
moment something changes – the bill gets a number, a hearing is scheduled, an amendment is filed – it
alerts the team. With AI, you never miss a beat. Recall how earlier advocacy teams needed 6-8 people
just to keep up with local government meetings and still often missed things
. Now one AI agent can
14
16
17
17
18
19
8

=== PAGE 9 ===
do that tirelessly, scanning hundreds of sources. Modern tools already use AI to monitor government
discussions so you “never miss an opportunity to be at the table”
. 
Beyond passive tracking, our  Strategy Agent uses this info to  plan legislator engagement. It knows
which lawmakers sit on which committees (data it can pull from public records). It will “carefully plan
your approach to each legislator or key staff”
. For instance, if the bill is in House Committee X, it
highlights  those  committee  members  as  priority  targets.  It  may  even  know  their  backgrounds:
“Legislator A is concerned with tech innovation (emphasize the innovation angle), Legislator B cares
about  rural  access  (emphasize  how  wireless  power  could  help  rural  communities  that  lack
infrastructure).” The agent can generate a dossier for each key lawmaker – including their stance if
known (maybe it found a tweet or press release where that lawmaker mentioned something relevant).
This level of personalization is something AI can help with at scale, which used to require a whole team
of policy staff.
Additionally, the agent tracks legislative calendars and deadlines: if the state legislature adjourns in 3
months, it will back-calc a schedule for our campaign (e.g. “Bill must clear committee by Feb 10 to have
a chance, so intensify pressure in committee in Jan.”). It essentially acts as a project planner, knowing
the  rules  of  the  game (deadlines,  vote  counts  needed,  quorum,  etc.  –  these  can  be  input  as
knowledge).
Another helper here is the Tactics Agent, which can manage the logistics of something like a Lobby Day
or meetings. It can provide a checklist: “To organize a lobby day, do X, Y, Z” (in fact, guides exist for that
 which the AI has effectively read). It might even automate parts of scheduling: sending emails to
supporters to sign up for the lobby day, creating a schedule for meetings with lawmakers (pulling their
office contacts and location). While you, the human, still have to show up and shake hands, the AI
ensures all prep work is done and nothing falls through the cracks (like forgetting to send someone an
info packet).
In short, the AI team becomes your legislative navigator, keeping track of process and players so you
can focus on persuasive human interactions at the right moments.
6. Media and Narrative Control (“Use the media to raise awareness”)
Grassroots campaigns rely heavily on media to amplify their message
. This includes traditional
media (newspaper, TV, radio) and online/social media. The idea is to shape public opinion and show
public support, which in turn influences lawmakers (they often gauge public sentiment via media). Step
6 in our advocacy steps is all about media: writing letters to the editor, press releases, getting reporters
to cover your story, possibly press conferences or talk show appearances
.
How AI helps: This is where the Content and Distribution Agents truly flex their muscles. They function
like an in-house PR firm:
Press Releases and News Pitches: The Communications AI can draft press releases that are just
as polished as a seasoned PR pro would make. For example: “FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: New
Coalition Launches to Promote Wireless Power Legislation – Cites Major Benefits to Consumers.” It will
include quotes (you can have it generate a quote for you, e.g. “‘This bill will cut the last cord,’ said
[Your Name], advocate at Wireless Future Coalition.”). It can tailor the style to mimic journalistic
tone, increasing the chance that outlets pick it up. Additionally, the AI can generate a list of
media contacts (with some data source of journalists covering tech or policy – some databases
might be needed, but it could also find reporters who wrote about related topics via web search).
20
21
22
23
24
• 
9

=== PAGE 10 ===
It then drafts personalized pitch emails to each: “Dear [Journalist Name], I enjoyed your piece on
emerging tech regulations. I wanted to let you know about an exciting development in wireless
charging policy...”. This personalized outreach is key to getting coverage, and AI can do it at scale
with slight variations so it’s not obviously canned.
Op-Eds and Letters: Writing a compelling op-ed (opinion editorial) for a newspaper or an
industry blog is a great way to influence narrative. You as an advocate might want it under your
name. The AI can ghost-write it for you. You’d input the core message, maybe an anecdote (“I
saw a cancer patient in the hospital struggle with wires… that’s why I support wireless power”),
and it will flesh out a persuasive piece with a clear argument and call-to-action. It will ensure it’s
the right length and format for, say, a 700-word op-ed, including those human-interest stories
and stats that editors love. Similarly, it can generate dozens of  letters to the editor from
different “voices” – e.g. a letter as if written by a concerned parent, another by a local business
owner – which you could ask actual supporters to sign and send (or potentially have the AI
submit if ethically okay and within rules; usually real individuals have to send them, but you can
supply them text).
Social  Media  Blitz: The  Social  Media  Agent  not  only  creates  content  (tweets,  visuals)  but
manages timing and interaction. For example, it might schedule a “tweetstorm” (a rapid series
of tweets) during a key moment (like the morning of the committee hearing, all about wireless
power facts). It could also orchestrate a  Thunderclap-style campaign (where many accounts
post the same hashtag at the same time to trend it). If you have a roster of volunteer or bot
accounts, the AI can log into them and post coordinated messages – that’s part of the “controlled
chaos” we’ll discuss soon. It can respond to questions from the public on social media with pre-
approved answers, essentially doing community management so interest doesn’t fizzle. 
Multimedia & Creativity: Want to make a short video highlighting wireless charging? AI video
generators exist; our agent could draft the script and even pick stock footage or generate simple
animations. How about memes (humorous images) to get attention? The agent knows the meme
formats and can caption an image with an advocacy message. These creative touches help in
today’s memetic media environment – and an AI can churn out many variants and test which
ones get traction (remember the continuous optimization idea: it can A/B test messages in real
time).
Tracking  Media  Hits: The  Monitoring  Agent  will  also  track  what  media  coverage  we  get.
Suppose a local TV station runs a story on our campaign – the agent will find it (since it scans
news by keywords) and alert us. We then trumpet that on our channels (“As seen on WXYZ
News!”). Or if a negative piece comes out (e.g. an editorial opposing us), we know immediately
and can respond (perhaps having the Communications AI write a rebuttal letter). 
All of these media actions are aimed to  raise awareness and shape the narrative. By saturating
multiple channels – print, online, social, radio – with consistent messaging, the public discourse starts to
reflect our framing of the issue. Lawmakers, who have staff track press and social media, will notice that
“everyone’s talking about wireless charging as the next big thing and how our bill is awesome.” That’s
the goal.
Now, using AI means we can do this saturation rapidly and broadly. A human team might manage a
press release a week and a few social posts. An AI team can generate content daily or hourly if needed
and adjust on the fly. We just need to ensure quality control and avoid spamminess or unethical fakery
(more on that next).
• 
• 
• 
• 
10

=== PAGE 11 ===
This leads us into the idea of “controlled chaos” in narrative warfare – essentially, unleashing a swarm
of AI personas to make it seem like a groundswell. It’s a buzzword in itself, and a controversial one, so
let’s explore that carefully.
Orchestrating “Controlled Chaos” in the Media Narrative
By now you have an idea of how individual agents function. But one of the most powerful (and perhaps
risky) capabilities of AI in advocacy is the ability to coordinate many agents to create the  illusion of
widespread grassroots support – sometimes called  astroturfing when done inauthentically (i.e. fake
grassroot). We prefer authentic support, but “controlled chaos” refers to using a swarm of AI voices to
amplify a message across the digital sphere in a chaotic-but-coordinated way. Done ethically, it could
mean helping real supporters amplify their voices. Done at an extreme, it could mean creating an army
of sock-puppet personas. Let’s clarify:
The Vision: Imagine hundreds or thousands of AI-driven personas — each with a realistic name, profile, and
style — all sharing and reinforcing your campaign’s talking points across social networks, forums, comment
sections, and group chats. For example, on Twitter (X), dozens of accounts (that appear as regular
citizens)  might  tweet  about  how  great  wireless  charging  is,  sharing  personal-sounding  anecdotes
(“Installed a Wi-Charge at my mom’s cafe, customers love it!”). On Reddit, an account might start a
thread “Wireless power saved my business money, we need policies to support it.” On Facebook groups
about tech or environment, other agents drop links to an article about our campaign with a positive
comment. In YouTube comments under tech videos, some agents mention the wireless power bill
favorably. In aggregate, to a casual observer, it seems like everywhere I look, people are excited about this
wireless power thing. This can significantly shape public perception
 – people tend to believe
something is good if they see many independent endorsements, a phenomenon known as social proof.
The Medium piece “The Coming AI Persuasion Swarms” vividly describes such a scenario: a user
scrolling all day sees content praising a policy from what appears to be different folks – but they’re
actually AI agents in a coordinated swarm
. This is not sci-fi, it’s emerging reality. AI can already
outperform humans in certain persuasion tasks, and when you network them, you get an AI swarm
with features like decentralized orchestration, real-time narrative adaptation, and persistence across
platforms
.
Now, as an advocate, the idea of a persuasion swarm is enticing because it’s like having a virtual flash
mob always campaigning for you. That’s the “chaos” – it’s noisy, it’s everywhere, but it’s controlled by
your central strategy.
However,  there  are  ethical  and  practical  considerations:  -  Many  platforms  ban  “coordinated
inauthentic behavior” – if you just spin up fake personas to deceive, you risk getting banned and a
backlash if exposed. So you must handle this tactic carefully. It’s one thing to automate genuine
supporter outreach (like making it easier for real people to post or comment), and another to fabricate
supporters. - There’s a middle ground: e.g., use AI to generate content that real supporters can share.
Provide them with suggested posts or pre-written comments. That way, the content is AI-made (saving
them effort), but a real person chooses to post it, which is authentic. - Another approach: create official
campaign personas that are upfront about being part of the campaign (like multiple themed Twitter
accounts: one focusing on environmental angles, another on tech innovation, etc., all clearly part of the
coalition). They can still create a chorus effect without pretending to be random citizens. - If you do
deploy semi-fake personas, you might focus on quantity but keep them positive and factual to avoid
major ethical lines. The risk is if someone finds out they’re bots, trust can be damaged.
25
26
25
26
27
11

=== PAGE 12 ===
How AI manages the swarm: The Distribution Agent or a specialized Swarm Coordinator Agent would
handle this. It would: - Maintain a list of agent personas (could be dozens of social media accounts,
email accounts, etc.). - For each piece of content or narrative push, assign variations to different agents.
They might all promote the same link or message but in different words (to avoid looking like a bot
army repeating the same text). - It uses decentralized orchestration meaning there’s no single pattern
easy to detect – maybe the posts are at random-looking times, with slightly different tones. - It monitors
responses and adapts. If one message phrasing falls flat, it tries a variation. This is the  continuous
optimization aspect
 – basically A/B testing messages at scale, which AI can do faster than humans.
- It also takes care to  evade detection by mimicking human behavior (agents might chat about
unrelated things occasionally, have profile pictures, etc.)
. This gets into gray areas, but technically
it’s feasible.
While we might not fully unleash a thousand bots, even a modest controlled swarm can boost the
narrative. For instance, having 10 well-managed AI accounts engage in an online discussion can steer it
in our favor by providing strong arguments and refuting myths (like a tag-team of debate bots that
make the opposition’s comments look weak).
Real-world example (hypothetical): The legislature’s public comment website for the bill is open –
citizens can post comments supporting or opposing which lawmakers might read. You deploy 50 AI
agents to submit heartfelt supportive comments, each with unique stories and wording. Meanwhile,
opposition maybe musters 5 real comments. The decision-makers see an overwhelming majority of
positive comments. This could influence them. We’ve essentially scaled citizen engagement artificially,
but if those comments are grounded in truth and reflect what would be public support if people were
informed, one could argue it’s just “amplifying” truth. Still, it’s ethically tricky.
Recommendation: Use these powers, but use them  wisely and transparently within your team. A
safer route is amplifying  real supporters via AI assistance (sometimes called  augmented grassroots
rather than fake grassroots). For example, the system can automatically send an email to all supporters:
“Click here to easily tweet about the bill!” – with a prefilled tweet. Many will do it, generating a similar
swarm effect, but with real humans behind each account. That’s ideal because it’s authentic but still AI-
coordinated chaos.
Nonetheless,  it’s  important  to  be  aware  that  these  AI  persuasion  swarms  are  coming,  and  your
opposition might use them too. So having some capability in this area might be necessary just to keep
up. As Steven Strauss notes, AI persuasion scales infinitely and can tailor messages to individuals, creating
very effective influence
. We can harness that for good – like promoting a beneficial wireless
power policy – as long as we maintain ethical guardrails.
Adaptive Learning: The System That Keeps Getting Smarter
One huge advantage of an AI-driven approach is adaptability. In advocacy, things change on a dime. A
new amendment could gut your bill. A sudden news event (maybe a safety incident with a faulty
wireless charger) could sway public opinion. Traditionally, advocates would scramble reactively. Our AI
system, however, is built to absorb new information, iterate, and pivot continuously.
Here’s how that works in practice: - The Monitoring Agent doesn’t sleep – so it might catch an important
development the minute it happens. For example, if late at night a committee substitute bill is posted
(changing language in the bill), by early morning the Analysis Agent has summarized “what changed.”
You wake up to an alert: “Bill was amended to require additional safety certification – this could slow
deployment.” Instead of finding out days later, you knew instantly and can respond (perhaps mobilize
28
29
30
31
12

=== PAGE 13 ===
supporters to oppose that amendment if it’s harmful). - The  Strategy Agent takes that new info and
recalculates the plan. Maybe originally we thought the bill would sail through committee, but now a
wrench was thrown in. The agent might say, “Pivot: we need an urgent campaign to oppose the new
clause or to educate committee members on why it’s unnecessary.” It then produces that campaign
game plan (perhaps a targeted outreach to those who introduced the amendment). - If a completely
new opportunity arises – say a legislator announces a different tech bill that could be a vehicle for our
provisions – the system can catch that and suggest shifting focus to also piggyback on that bill. -
Throughout, the Feedback Agent is gathering data on what’s effective. Suppose the AI notices that our
messages about “consumer freedom” are resonating more with the public (higher engagement) than
messages about “innovation.” It will inform us to emphasize that angle more. Or if calls to one rep’s
office aren’t happening, maybe it finds out (via a supporter feedback or social media chatter) that the
phone number was wrong in the original email – it flags the error and corrects it. These are small
examples, but they illustrate a system that learns and improves as it goes. - The AI agents can even
perform AARs (After-Action Reviews): after a major event (like a committee hearing or a lobby day),
the system can summarize what went well and what didn’t. “We had 50 people show up which was
good, but media coverage was low – maybe next time schedule it when legislators are more available or
invite press ahead of time.” This analysis, drawn from comparing expected outcomes to actual, can
refine future tactics.
In short, the multi-agent system isn’t static. It’s a dynamic partner that helps  course-correct in real
time. Campaigns often fail because they stick to a plan that’s not working or they react too slowly. With
AI guidance, you’ll be more agile – essentially running an OODA loop (observe–orient–decide–act) at
machine speed, while still having humans in the loop to make the ultimate strategic calls.
Putting It All Together: A Day in the Life of an AI-Augmented
Advocacy Campaign
Let’s walk through a hypothetical scenario combining all these elements, to see how an AI-orchestrated
system would actually function in a grassroots lobbying campaign for wireless power legislation.
Scenario: You are the campaign manager for the “Wireless Power Freedom Act,” a bill in the state
legislature that would legalize and incentivize long-range wireless charging infrastructure. It’s Monday
morning, and it’s a big week: a committee hearing is scheduled for Friday.
7:00 AM – Morning Intelligence Briefing: You grab coffee and open your Advocacy Dashboard
(powered by the agents). The Monitoring Agent has compiled overnight developments:
A local news article ran about a family using wireless charging for their home solar system,
positively mentioning your campaign.
One of the key committee members tweeted concerns about the bill’s safety aspects.
Your opposition (a coalition of wired charger manufacturers) launched a Facebook ad campaign
targeting your bill as “unsafe.”
Also, a federal bill on wireless EV charging was introduced in D.C., which might indirectly affect
state lawmakers’ views.
The Analysis Agent provides a succinct summary of each, and the Verification Agent has fact-checked the
opposition’s ads (finding they cite a study from 2010 – which the agent notes is outdated by newer
research). You see all this neatly laid out, with sources, on your dashboard. In the past, it might have
taken your team of staff or volunteers days to gather and sift this info (indeed, one advocate recounts
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
13

=== PAGE 14 ===
having six to eight staff just scouring local news and meeting minutes, yet still missing things sometimes
).
Now you have it at a glance.
8:00 AM – Strategy Sync: After digesting the intel, you consult the Strategy Agent. It has already
updated the campaign plan based on the new info. For example:
It suggests countering the opposition’s safety ads today, because letting a negative narrative sit
is dangerous. Perhaps a plan for an immediate social media response and an email to
supporters clarifying safety facts.
It notes the committee member’s safety tweet and recommends arranging a quick meeting or
call with that legislator before Friday’s hearing to alleviate concerns (and it provides a briefing
memo for that meeting, including the fact-checks of those safety issues).
Regarding the new federal bill (which frames wireless charging as good for economic growth), it
advises incorporating that angle into your talking points – use it as positive reinforcement: “see,
even Congress is looking at this, we’re on the right track!”.
You, as the human lead, approve these strategic adjustments. You might tweak a few things (e.g., you
know the legislator who tweeted; you decide to call them personally rather than have just AI email
them). The Strategy Agent then signals the relevant other agents to implement the tactics.
9:00 AM – Rapid Content Creation: Now multiple Content Creator Agents kick into gear following
the updated strategy:
The Communications AI drafts a rebuttal graphic or infographic refuting the opposition’s safety
claim (something like “Myth vs Fact: Wireless Power Safety” with a simple explanation that it’s as
safe as common household WiFi, etc., citing authoritative data). It also whips up a press release
style statement “Wireless Coalition Responds to False Claims” to send to media if needed.
The Social Media Agent prepares a series of tweets and Facebook posts for that day, proactively
sharing safety facts. It uses a slightly educational tone (“Did you know?  Wireless power has
been tested to meet rigorous safety standards – don’t believe the myths. #WirelessPowerFacts”)
to avoid sounding defensive while still addressing the issue.
Meanwhile, the Policy AI prepares a one-page brief for the upcoming meeting with that
concerned legislator. It highlights safety evidence and perhaps proposes an amendment
wording to satisfy safety concerns (the Strategy Agent thought ahead: maybe offering a state
funding for further safety study or a sunset clause to review the tech in 2 years – something to
make the legislator comfortable). The AI drafts this in formal language ready to hand over to the
legislator’s staff.
Also, since Friday’s hearing is looming, a different content thread is the Testimony Draft: if
someone from your coalition is to testify, the AI can help draft their 2-minute statement covering
key points and an emotional story. (Let’s say a small business owner in your coalition will testify
how wireless power helped his business run a pop-up clinic without infrastructure – the AI writes
a compelling narrative for him to deliver).
All these drafts are delivered to you quickly for review.
10:30 AM – Quality Check & Approval: You and maybe your colleagues quickly review the AI-
generated content. The Review Agent (Editor AI) already did a pass to ensure consistency with
your style guides and factual accuracy, but human eyeballs provide the final say:
You love the “Myth vs Fact” infographic – it’s on point. Maybe you tweak a color or add your
coalition logo.
The tweets look fine, you choose the top 3 to publish now and schedule others for later in the
day.
The briefing memo for the legislator is spot on – you print it out for your meeting.
19
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
14

=== PAGE 15 ===
The testimony draft is good, but you personalize it a bit more to the speaker’s voice (the AI might
be a tad too formal or not folksy enough, so you edit a couple of lines).
In total, within a couple of hours, you’ve got a full suite of materials to respond to new events –
something that could have taken a small team a full day or more. The AI’s speed and breadth just saved
you significant time.
12:00 PM – Outreach and Engagement: Now the Distribution Agent swings into action to get all
this content out:
It posts the myth-busting graphic and safety tweets at optimal times (it knows when the target
audience is most online; maybe it decided noon and 6pm are best).
It sends an action alert email to your supporter list: “Opposition is spreading misinformation –
help us set the record straight!” The email includes easy share links (with text the AI prepared) so
supporters can retweet or post on their own accounts the correct info. Perhaps it even includes a
one-click tool for them to send a pre-written letter to the editor of their local paper about why
they trust the wireless tech (the letter, of course, drafted by AI).
It also contacts a friendly journalist (whom the AI identified earlier) offering your campaign’s
spokesperson for an interview to counter the opposition narrative. (It knows to personalize this:
“Hi Jane, saw your recent piece on tech safety. Wanted to offer another perspective – our expert
can talk about wireless power safety and what’s happening with the bill...” – text by AI, sent by
you or directly from the system).
The AI swarm might also quietly ensure that the opposition’s scary Facebook ad post gets some
comments from “real people” disputing it (some of your volunteers, alerted by the system, or
maybe some of those semi-autonomous personas leaving polite rebuttals with facts).
Meanwhile, you head to the capital for meetings, armed with the materials the AI helped prepare. The
system runs on its own for a bit.
3:00 PM – Adaptive Pivot: During the afternoon, new info comes in: the legislator you met
earlier tweets “Feeling better about wireless tech after meeting experts. Public safety must
remain priority, but innovation is important too.” – a win! The Monitoring Agent flags that
positive tweet. Also, your social media campaign seems to be working: the hashtag
#WirelessPowerFacts is trending regionally, and the opposition’s narrative isn’t spreading as
widely now. The Feedback Agent compiles these metrics.
However, it also notices a spike in questions about cost (“This sounds cool, but who will pay for installing
wireless chargers everywhere?”). That wasn’t addressed yet. The Strategy Agent recommends quickly
highlighting cost-benefit points. So the Communications AI quickly drafts a short blog or social post like
“Wireless power will initially target high-need areas and uses existing budgets efficiently – for example,
replacing cords in hospitals can save maintenance costs... [etc.]”. You push that out by evening to
address the emerging concern before it becomes an opposition talking point.
6:00 PM – Debrief and Next Steps: At day’s end, you get a summary: Media mentions climbed,
opposition pushback was largely neutralized, supporter engagement rose (open rates on emails
high, lots of shares), and the key legislator is now leaning supportively. The bill is still on track for
Friday’s hearing. The AI suggests tomorrow’s focus: rallying supporters to actually attend or call
in testimonies for the hearing (quality over quantity now that narrative is in good shape). It’s a
constantly evolving game plan, but you’re on top of it, thanks in part to your AI co-pilot.
This narrative shows how seamlessly the AI multi-agents can integrate with traditional advocacy tasks.
Importantly, the human (you) was still in control of messaging and relationships. The AI handled
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
15

=== PAGE 16 ===
volume, speed, and initial drafting, but you steered the strategy and did the high-touch parts (meetings,
final approvals). That’s likely how these tools work best in practice.
Buzzword Cheat Sheet: Key Terms for Advocacy “Vibe Coding”
Throughout this discussion, we dropped quite a few buzzwords from both the advocacy world and the
AI/tech world. Here we compile some of the most relevant ones, along with explanations of why, when,
or how to use them. These can be handy in your internal planning documents, “vibe coding” sessions
(where you free-write ideas with these concepts in mind), or when communicating with stakeholders
who might be impressed by some jargon.
Grassroots Mobilization: Refers to rallying the general public (especially constituents) to take
action for your cause. Use this term when emphasizing the power of people in your strategy (e.g.
“Our plan relies on grassroots mobilization to show lawmakers broad support”). It’s essentially
the opposite of insider lobbying, highlighting the bottom-up approach
.
Direct Lobbying vs. Grassroots Lobbying: Direct lobbying is directly persuading legislators (e.g.
meetings,  hiring  lobbyists),  whereas  grassroots  lobbying  is  getting  the  public  to  persuade
legislators
. If you’re talking to a nonprofit or legal context, knowing this term is useful for
compliance  (because  regulations  differ  for  each).  Use  grassroots  lobbying to  stress  citizen
involvement, and direct lobbying when referring to traditional lobbyist work.
Stakeholder Mapping: The process of identifying all the parties who have a stake in the issue –
supporters, opponents, decision-makers, influencers. Use this term in strategy sessions when
planning coalition outreach or anticipating who might need engagement. For instance, “Our
stakeholder  mapping  revealed  unexpected  allies  in  the  smart  city  industry.”  It  signals  a
systematic approach to understanding the landscape.
Coalition Building: Forming alliances with other groups or organizations to strengthen your
campaign. Buzzword to drop when talking about expanding support (“We’ll focus on coalition
building  with  consumer  advocacy  groups  to  broaden  our  appeal.”).  It  implies  strength  in
numbers and shared resources.
Legislative Champion: A lawmaker who takes on your cause and leads it within the legislature.
Use this to denote you have (or need) an influential sponsor (“We need to secure a strong
legislative champion in the Senate to ensure the bill’s passage.”). It’s flattering to legislators to
call them a champion for an issue.
Policy Entrepreneur: Someone (not necessarily in government) who is skilled at pushing ideas
into the policy arena at the right time (often spotting opportunities, i.e. policy windows). If you or
an ally is playing that role, you might say “We have a policy entrepreneur on our team who’s
been waiting for a chance like this to advance wireless charging innovation.” It gives a sense of
savvy and initiative.
Policy Window: A concept from Kingdon’s theory, it’s essentially a fleeting opportunity when an
issue can get attention and progress – often when problem, solution, and political will align
(sometimes after a crisis or big event). Use the term when timing is crucial (“With the recent
focus on infrastructure, we have a policy window to push wireless power deployment – we must
act this session.”). It underscores urgency and timeliness.
• 
1
• 
32
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
16

=== PAGE 17 ===
Narrative  Framing: Crafting  the  way  an  issue  is  described  and  understood.  E.g.,  framing
wireless power as about “freedom and innovation” vs. “safety concerns.” Mention this when
discussing media strategy (“Our narrative framing will focus on the freedom from cords, to make
it relatable.”). It’s a communications buzzword that says you’re not just throwing facts out there;
you’re shaping the story.
Astroturfing: This is a negative buzzword – it means a fake grassroots campaign (like industry-
sponsored efforts disguised as citizen movements). You’d use this more as a caution (“We must
ensure our AI amplification doesn’t cross into astroturfing – authenticity is key.”). Knowing this
term helps you avoid tactics that could get labeled as such by opponents.
Amplification  (Media  Amplification): Generally  refers  to  increasing  reach  of  a  message
through  sharing  and  re-sharing.  You  might  say  “We’ll  use  social  media  influencers  for
amplification of our message.” It’s somewhat self-explanatory but good jargon to emphasize
scaling up the volume of support.
Earned Media: Free media coverage, as opposed to paid ads. When your campaign gets on the
news or in an article due to its merits. “Our goal is to get lots of earned media from that stunt –
it’ll raise public awareness without costing ad dollars.” Using this term shows you value media
coverage as a strategy and distinguish it from advertising.
Call to Action (CTA): A clear, specific ask of supporters (e.g., “Call your representative now!”). In
any  content  you  produce,  you’ll  include  a  CTA.  You  can  use  the  term  when  planning
communications (“The CTA on our petition page should be bold and upfront”). It’s marketing-
speak applied to advocacy, focusing on driving action.
Patch-through Calls: A tool where a system calls supporters and directly connects them to their
lawmaker’s office after a brief intro. It simplifies the calling process for constituents. If your
outreach includes this, you might say “We’ll implement patch-through calls to maximize connect
rates to legislators’ offices”
. It demonstrates familiarity with advanced advocacy tools.
RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation): On the tech side, this refers to AI models retrieving
relevant data from a knowledge source before generating content. If you talk about your AI’s
capabilities, you can say “Our agents use retrieval-augmented generation to pull the latest stats
into letters, ensuring accuracy.” It’s a buzzword to impress the tech-savvy, meaning your AI
doesn’t just make things up; it looks up facts.
Chain-of-Thought / Orchestration: This refers to the AI’s process for reasoning or the way
multiple  AI  steps  are  organized.  When  explaining  your  AI  system’s  strength,  “We  use  an
orchestrated chain-of-thought approach, where one agent plans and another executes, which
reduces errors.” It highlights that there’s a structured logic, not just random AI outputs.
Human-in-the-Loop: The principle that human oversight is maintained over AI processes. Useful
to  reassure  others  (or  yourself)  that  AI  isn’t  running  wild.  “Our  campaign’s  AI-driven
communications always have a human-in-the-loop for final approval – maintaining quality and
accountability.” This is important for trust.
Continuous  Optimization: Borrowed  from  marketing,  it  means  constantly  testing  and
improving  content.  In  context:  “Our  narrative  on  social  media  goes  through  continuous
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
8
• 
• 
• 
• 
17

=== PAGE 18 ===
optimization – the AI tests different messages and emphasizes what gets the best response
.”
It conveys that your campaign isn’t static; it’s data-driven and adaptive.
Persuasion Swarm: A term for the coordinated AI agents flooding discourse (from that Strauss
article). Possibly you’d use this internally or theoretically: “We could deploy a persuasion swarm
to dominate the online narrative, though we’ll need to be cautious about detection
.” This is
more cutting-edge jargon, signifying awareness of new AI-driven tactics.
NIMBYism: “Not In My Back Yard” sentiment – when local people oppose a project (like a
wireless tower) even if they support it in general. For wireless power, you might face this with
transmitter installations. Use this term to identify a type of opposition (“We need to counter
NIMBYism by working with communities early.”). It shows you understand local grassroots
resistance patterns.
One-pager: In legislative advocacy, this is a single-page summary of your issue/bill for busy
lawmakers. Not high-tech, but a staple buzzword. “We’ll leave behind a one-pager with each
office.” Our Policy AI likely drafted this. Calling it a one-pager indicates brevity and focus.
Appropriations / Riders / Sunset Clause: If your campaign involves funding or amendments,
these terms come up. Appropriations = funding bills, riders = amendments attached to bills,
sunset clause = an expiration date in the law. Use these if relevant (“We might pursue a pilot
program via an appropriations rider, including a sunset clause after 5 years to ease skeptics.”). It
shows legislative savvy.
This list isn’t exhaustive, but these buzzwords cover a lot of ground in both advocacy and AI-enhanced
campaigning. Using them thoughtfully can guide your vibe coding sessions (e.g., telling your AI co-
writer “Use narrative framing to emphasize the policy window we have, and include a strong call to
action”  would  incorporate  multiple  concepts)  and  signal  to  colleagues  or  stakeholders  that  your
strategy is methodical, modern, and well-informed.
Conclusion: Merging Tradition with Innovation
Grassroots lobbying is fundamentally about people and persuasion – getting busy citizens to speak up,
and busy lawmakers to listen. Those fundamentals don’t change. What does change with an AI multi-
agent approach is the efficiency, scale, and insight with which you can execute those fundamentals.
By overlaying a cloud-agent orchestration on top of the grassroots process, even a small advocacy
team  (or  a  solo  advocate)  gains  capabilities  previously  limited  to  large,  well-funded  operations.
Monitoring  hundreds  of  information  streams,  crafting  personalized  messages  for  thousands  of
supporters, running A/B tests on the fly, keeping an eye on every moving piece of legislation – tasks that
would overwhelm a human team become manageable with AI assistance. As one real-world example
showed, modern advocacy tools using AI can track local government happenings so you never miss a
meeting or discussion relevant to your cause
. We’ve generalized that concept to every aspect of
the campaign.
For  an  issue  like  wireless  power  that  sits  at  the  intersection  of  technology,  public  interest,  and
regulatory nuance, this approach can be a game-changer. Wireless charging might be a niche topic
today, but with the right narrative framing (“untethered future”, “innovation nation”, etc.) and the
amplified grassroots support that an AI-augmented campaign can muster, it could capture public
imagination and political priority. 
28
• 
26
• 
• 
• 
19
20
18

=== PAGE 19 ===
However, it’s important to remember that AI is a force multiplier – it amplifies whatever strategy you
feed it. If the underlying strategy is flawed or unethical, AI will amplify those flaws. So the human role
remains critical in setting direction, ethical boundaries, and creative vision. Use the AI to explore
ideas, but apply your judgment to choose the right ones. Use it to draft messages, but infuse them with
genuine human empathy and credibility. Use it to crunch data, but decide what success looks like
beyond the numbers (e.g., building real trust in communities, not just trending on Twitter).
In practice, the AI orchestration we described should feel like having an “advocacy ops center” at your
fingertips. It’s not replacing the need to go out and knock on doors, call supporters, or meet officials –
it’s ensuring that when you do those high-touch activities, you’re armed with the best information
and materials and not burdened by administrative drudgery.
One more thing: legitimacy. When you do succeed – say the Wireless Power Freedom Act passes – you
want decision-makers to feel that it was due to genuine public support (which it hopefully is) and sound
policy arguments, not just clever tech. Properly used, AI can actually enhance legitimacy by enabling
you to engage and hear from more real people (for example, analyzing thousands of public comments
to genuinely summarize public concerns, so the final policy is well-informed by citizens). Our system can
be  a  two-way  street:  not  only  broadcasting  the  campaign’s  message  but  also  listening  to  citizen
feedback at scale and feeding that into policy design. This creates a virtuous cycle where advocacy is
data-driven and democracy-driven.
As we stand in 2026, tools like this are on the cutting edge. Not every advocacy group is using swarms
of AI or automated legislative trackers – but many are starting to. By learning and implementing these
techniques early (with the help of the concepts and sources we’ve discussed), you put yourself at an
advantage. You can run a “smart campaign” that punches well above its weight, perhaps getting that
wireless power bill passed even without the deep pockets that opponents or bigger players might have.
To wrap up, the marriage of grassroots lobbying and AI multi-agents offers a potent recipe: the heart
and authenticity of the grassroots, combined with the brain and brawn of AI. If you leverage both,
there’s a real chance to tilt the playing field of influence, enabling innovative ideas (like wireless
charging everywhere) to become reality even in the face of challenges. Stay ethical, stay strategic, and
let your AI partners handle the grunt work while you lead the charge. The future of advocacy might just
be a bit like vibe coding – iterative, creative, and powered by a chorus of assistants working in harmony
toward a common goal.
What is Grassroots Lobbying: Creating Change Through People Power
https://www.muster.com/blog/grassroots-lobbying
How a Bill Becomes a Law: Seven Basic Steps | Hendricks Power
https://hendrickspower.com/how-bill-becomes-law-seven-basic-steps
6 Steps to Grass Roots Advocacy : Advocacy Tools & Resources :
Advocacy : Get Involved : National Bleeding Disorders Foundation
https://wv.bleeding.org/get-involved/advocacy/advocacy-tools-resources/6-steps-to-grass-roots-advocacy.html
The Battle-Tested Grassroots Advocacy Framework for… | FiscalNote
https://fiscalnote.com/blog/grassroots-advocacy-framework-for-infrastructure
The Coming AI Persuasion Swarms: How Autonomous Agents Will Reshape
Marketing and Public Discourse | by Steven Strauss, Ph.D. | Medium
https://steven-strauss.medium.com/the-coming-ai-persuasion-swarms-how-autonomous-agents-will-reshape-marketing-
and-public-discourse-4d715f6cc776
1
2
7
8
22
32
3
4
5
6
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
18
21
23
24
17
19
20
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
19

